# Mongo Utils tools:


### mongodump	: 
mongodump is a utility for creating a binary export of the contents of a database. mongodump can export data from either mongod or mongos instances

bin/mongodump --db=troublecode

### mongorestore:
The mongorestore program loads data from either a binary database dump created by mongodump	

bin/mongorestore --nsInclude="troublecode.*" dump/

### mongoexport	:
The mongoexport is typically used to export a collection from the mongo database and has more options and granularity on which fields within each document record to export.
The mongoexport utility is similar to mongodump but rather than creating a dump directory with BSON files, the mongoexport utility is used to produce JSON output (or CSV) files from your mongo database.

 bin/mongoexport --db=troublecode --collection=fs.chunks --jsonArray --pretty --out="fs.chunks.json"


### mongoimport:
The mongoimport tool imports content from an extended JSON, CSV, or TSV export created by mongoexport, or potentially, another third-party export tool.

bin/mongoimport --db=troublecode --collection=fs.files   --file="fs.chunks.json" --jsonArray


### bsondump :
The bsondump converts BSON files into human-readable formats, including JSON . For example, bsondump is useful for reading the output files generated by mongodump.

bin/bsondump --outFile=fs.file.json dump/troublecode/fs.files.bson



### mongofiles:
The mongofiles utility makes it possible to manipulate files stored in your MongoDB instance in GridFS objects from the command line. It is particularly useful as it provides an interface between objects stored in your file system and GridFS.
bin/mongofiles -d troublecode put /Users/narendrasingh/Downloads/pkpadmi.pdf
bin/mongofiles -d troublecode get /Users/narendrasingh/Downloads/pkpadmi.pdf
bin/mongofiles  -d troublecode list


### mongostat:
The mongostat utility provides a quick overview of the status of a currently running mongod or mongos instance.
bin/mongostat

### mongotop:
mongotop provides a method to track the amount of time a MongoDB instance mongod spends reading and writing data. mongotop provides statistics on a per-collection level.

bin/mongotop 
